In this lesson.
I just want to go through the starter project that we're going to use to set up JWT authentication.
So please start by launching the starter project by following this path in your resources.
Let's start from the top.
The first thing that I created when generating your starter project was a user entity, because when
a user signs up, when they register to use our API, we're going to save their information inside of
our database.
And you'll notice that I call the table users, not user.
That's because user is a reserved keyword in SQL.
And if you do use the word user to name your table, you're going to get a big exception.
So please make sure to stay cautious of reserved keywords in SQL.
I left you a link over here that you can use as a reference to see the reserved words.
If you do a control find, you will find that user is one of those words and we should not be using
it.
All right.
And you'll notice here that I have a new class entity not found exception.
That's because, as I was creating your starter project, I created another class called User Not Found
Exception, and it ended up having the exact same constructor.
It followed the exact same pattern as course not found exception and student not found exception.
So for the sake of avoiding redundant code I just created an entity not found exception class and its
constructor accepts a class type.
So from the course service implementation.
If they were to throw an entity not found exception, they would have to pass in course a class.
And because the class type is coarse, get simple name is going to extract the name of the class and
then two lowercase is going to convert it to lowercase.
So ultimately you'll have the course with ID, blah, blah, blah.
And this is repeated for student and this is also repeated for the user service implementation.
So now we have one exception class instead of three.
Which reduces the number of exceptions being handled over here.
And all in all, this was just to avoid redundancy.
But everything still works the exact same way.
Obviously, we need a user repository layer that can create user entities and query them from our table.
I'll get to security in a second.
And because we have a user repository, obviously, we also need a user service that acts as a middleman.
The user service implementation is going to be the middleman between the user repository and the user
controller.
So here we've got two handler methods one which creates a user that registers to use our services,
and another which queries by ID nothing new will be adding implementations to these later.
And finally, most importantly, you'll notice a security folder.
Here is where we'll be setting up our authentication filters.
Don't worry about those right now.
Here, we're going to be setting up our own authentication managers that validates a username and password
when the client logs in.
Again, we'll cover that later.
And here we have our security config.
This all of these lines we already covered when we were doing basic authentication.
The only two new lines are these ones over here.
And you're not really that important because these are not spring security configurations that you would
want to use in production.
These are only so that we can enable the H two console.
So anti-matter is that permit all.
You've already seen this.
It allows you to access whatever path without the need to authenticate such that any other request needs
to be authenticated.
And this is really important because as we're developing the application, we want to access the H two
database console without having to authenticate beforehand.
Otherwise that would get really, really annoying.
Now this is another configuration that we need to add in order to make H two work.
And the reason we need this, if I were to go to local host 80, 80 slash H two and then if I were to
authenticate the H two, UI is rendered within a frame.
So a frame is an HTML thing and we don't really care about front end stuff like HTML frames.
But just to give you the summary, a frame loads and HTML page within a parent HTML page, those are
commonly seen in ads or embedded media.
In this case, H two also renders its UI on a frame and by default spring security prevents rendering
within a frame, and this line disables its prevention.
Now, I want to emphasize that these configurations are only if you want to use H two in production,
you would never, ever use H two.
If you decide for some reason to deviate from what we have in the starter project and connect this to
a MySQL database instead, then you would have to remove these because they are specifically for configuring
H two.
And there is one more thing I want to emphasize is that in real life, in production, you would never,
ever use H two.
You would need to use something like MySQL or PostgreSQL that actually saves your data to disk.
You would connect your app just like I showed you over here.
In real life, this will be an actual URL depending on where you have my SQL deployed.
And in production you would not include this line for the reasons mentioned over here.
Anyways, I'm going a bit off script.
In real life you would use my SQL PostgreSQL or any relational database management system that actually
saves your data to disk.
But if you're just developing and testing, use h two.
It's small, it's a lightweight and memory database and this security rule allows us to view it without
having to authenticate.
And this one allows the UI to display within a frame which is disabled by default.
So if you were to actually remove this line, let me just show you.
Um.
You would definitely be able to authenticate.
But then we can't see the H two console because it renders within an HTML frame which by default is
disabled by spring security.
So we need this line as well to work with H two.
Again, we're still developing, we're still prototyping.
It's just much faster to use h24 now, more lightweight.
So let's just keep going with it.
And that is all that I want to show you for the Starter Project.
In the next video, we're going to talk about the differences between basic auth and JWT authentication
before we start coding this up.
All right.
See you soon.